slides for info session winter 2022 (#7)
foundersandcoders-members/fac-slides: src/slides/information-evening/fac23-application-update.md

---
title: Information Evening
---

# <img width="651" height="284" src="https://facresources.com/assets/logos/fac_logo.png" alt="Founders and Coders">

---

<!-- {.secondary.invert} -->

## Winter cohort 2022
- 17:00 - Updates
- 17:45 - Q&A
- 18:30 - End

---

### Things we'll cover tonight 

- The ladder of learning
- Application changes
- Programme changes 

---

<!-- {.primary} -->

## The ladder of learning

--- 

### Expectation vs Reality

---

<!-- {.primary} -->

## Application changes

---

### There are now "application cycles" 

---

### We only want a dedicated group of engaged and committed applicants

---
<!-- {.primary} -->

### Application stages
- Pre-application stage (where we are now)
- Application stage 
- Applying stage
- Interview stage

---

### Pre-application stage
- Submit an EOI during the application cycle
- Complete Basic HTML & Basic CSS on freeCodeCamp on your own
- Create a Tribute Page and send it to us

---

### Application stage

- Receive an invite to Discord
- Work through the rest of the course requirements with the community
- Attend pairing evenings and workshops

> - Learn to both learn on your own and learn with others 

Reviewer: This is a bit awkward to say 😅. Maybe

```suggestion
- Learn how to study on your own and with others 
```

---

### Applying stage

- Closed applications

> - Only people who are on Discord will receive application link 

Reviewer: These mean the same thing right? Do we need the first bullet?

Author: I guess so, was trying to drive the point in — but happy to just keep one.

---

### Interview stage

- We usually interview 24-32 people per cycle 
- Conversational and technical interview 

---

<!-- {.primary} -->
## Programme changes

---

### Split into two 12-week programmes
- Pre-apprenticeship (12 weeks, part-time)
- Apprenticeship (12 weeks, full-time)

---
### Interviews with employers before the course begins 

- Held during the pre-apprenticeship
- For winter 2022 cohort, interviews are in October/November

--- 

### Longer pre-apprenticeship programme  
- 12-weeks, part-time commitment 
- Includes employment and interview preparation
- 15+ hour commitment each week 

---

### Apprentices will be paid starting Week 1 of the full-time programme

--- 
<!-- {.primary} -->
## Winter 2022 application dates

--- 
- **Submit Tribute Pages** — now to July 16
- **Last day to join Discord** July 19
- **Submitting application between** August 23-27
- **Interviews** September 1-3 
- **Outcomes** September 6
- **Pre-apprenticeship** Sept 27 - Dec 17

> - **Apprenticeship** TBD, Jan 3 or Jan 10 

Reviewer: I find lists of dates kinda hard to visualise. Would it be easier to put a screenshot of one of those nice overlapping Notion timeline diagrams here?

Reviewer: E.g. 
<img width="1383" alt="Screenshot 2021-06-15 at 15 05 31" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9408641/122067058-295e8100-cdeb-11eb-9e63-e6ca4f7fa152.png">

Reviewer: (to supplement the actual specific dates, so people get a general idea of the order, how long each part lasts etc)

Author: I like this, I guess I just don't want people to think they have until July 16 to do the Tribute Page as that only leaves six weeks to do _everything else_. I guess we can highlight this during the info session so I'm not too worried. Could we add another one that says "Discord/application cycle engagement" from today until end August 27?

Reviewer: <img width="1361" alt="Screenshot 2021-06-15 at 16 19 15" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9408641/122079591-78111880-cdf5-11eb-8736-567e18595aa3.png">
